#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Basic Apps Blog =

http://code.google.com/p/django-basic-apps/

== Installation ==

To install this app,

1. create a folder named 'basic' under /newsroom/apps/ :
{{{
    mkdir apps/basic
}}}

2. Create an __init__.py file:
{{{
    touch apps/basic/__init__.py
}}}

3. cd /newsroom/apps/basic/
{{{
svn checkout http://django-basic-apps.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/blog blog
}}}

4. add 'basic.blog' to your project's INSTALLED_APPS list in your settings.py file.

=== Dependancies ===

5. Django Comments is likely already installed.  But to activate this for django newsroom add 'django.contrib.comments' to INSTALLED_APPS.

For more info, see: http://www.djangoproject.com/documentation/add_ons/#comments

6. Django Tagging is likely already installed.  But to activate this for django newsroom add 'tagging' to INSTALLED_APPS.

For more info, see: http://code.google.com/p/django-tagging Django Tagging

7. install basic.inlines

From within the apps/basic directory:
{{{
svn checkout http://django-basic-apps.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/inlines inlines
}}}

8. Add 'basic.inlines' to INSTALLED_APPS.

8. Install Markup

Markup and Inlines requires Markdown be installed.  To do this, run the following commands from within your virtual env:

{{{
easy_install ElementTree
easy_install Markdown
}}}

Afterward, be sure to add 'markup' to your INSTALLED_APPS setting

For more info, see: http://www.djangoproject.com/documentation/add_ons/#markup

== Getting Up and Running ==

10. Add the following urls to djangonewsroom's main urls.py:

{{{
(r'^blog/', include('basic.blog.urls')),
(r'^comments/', include('django.contrib.comments.urls')),
}}}

11. Override the the blog's templates by copying them from newsroom/apps/basic/blog/templates/blog into the newsroom/templates/blog folder.  Example:

{{{
cd working/trunk/newsroom/templates/
cp -r /Users/jetynan/dev/newsroom-env/working/trunk/newsroom/apps/basic/blog/templates/blog .
}}}

12. Run ./manage.py syncdb
You should see the following:

{{{
Creating table blog_categories
Creating table blog_posts
Creating table inline_types
Creating table django_comments
Creating table django_comment_flags
Installing index for blog.Post model
Installing index for inlines.InlineType model
Installing index for comments.Comment model
Installing index for comments.CommentFlag model
}}}

