=Milan Andric=

http://m.andric.us/

Milan Andric is a part-time consultant and part-time web developer for the Knight Digital Media Center at the Graduate School of Journalism, UC Berkeley.  Previously he was a part-time developer on the News21 Project.   Prior to News21 he has served as webmaster for the UC Berkeley Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department where he developed a content management system for departmental IT support as well as various other UNIX based systems. He is a graduate of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign with a bachelor's degree in History of Art and concentrations in Multimedia Arts and Computer Science. As a student he worked with local artists and Internet service providers doing creative work in programming, computer animation, writing and filmmaking.

Milan is also an open source advocate and has been using open source tools like Perl, Apache and Linux for almost 10 years.  During his time at the Journalism School he had great success with the computer language Python and the web framework Django.   He aspires to continue supporting and contributing to open source.  He also has a new found interest in Multimedia Journalism and the problems that the New Media movement is addressing.  He hopes to contribute in some way to the success of digital publishing and to provide tools for Multimedia Journalists to work on the web with little headache.

=Scot Hacker=

http://birdhouse.org/blog/

Scot Hacker is the webmaster for the Knight Digital Media Center at the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism, where he also offers technical assistance in multimedia training courses and teaches a class in web development. Hacker is the author of O'Reilly's MP3: The Definitive Guide, Peachpit's The BeOS Bible, and dozens of articles for print- and web-based technology publications including PC Magazine, Byte.com, Windows Sources, ZDNet, and the !CompuServe network, as well as television appearances and trade show gigs.

=Jeremy Rue=

http://multimedia.journalism.berkeley.edu/people/jrue/

RUE, JEREMY is a multimedia training instructor for the Knight Digital Media Center at UC Berkeley, where he teaches Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Flash as well as photo and audio techniques. He is a recent graduate of the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism, where he studied advanced multimedia storytelling, photojournalism and print journalism. He previously worked as a multimedia journalist for the Oakland Tribune, where he produced a number of Web-based projects related to the rise of Oakland homicides in 2006. Before enrolling at UC Berkeley, Rue worked as a photojournalist for a number of publications, including The Fresno Bee, The Modesto Bee and the Duluth News-Tribune in Minnesota. He then went on to become a reporter for the Selma (Calif.) Enterprise, where he covered city government, courts and crime. Rue is also the recipient of the 2007 Dorothea Lange Fellowship for his photo documentary work on migrant farm workers in the California Central Valley. He is an expert with Adobe Flash/!ActionScript, HTML/CSS, PHP and a variety of other web scripting languages. 

=John Tynan=

http://opensourcebroadcasting.blogspot.com/

John Tynan is the webmaster for NPR member stations [http://kjzz.org KJZZ] and [http://kbaq.org KBAQ] in Tempe, Arizona.  An early advocate of open source technology in public broadcasting, John migrated the stations' web site to [http://zope.org Zope], a python-based web application framework, in 2003 and has relied on this technology in production use for the last six years and counting.  He has also relied on similar technologies to create visually appealing web sites for his station's [https://secure.fpraz.org online store] as well as KJZZ's [http://aaronbrown.kjzz.org Aaron Brown Show] and the [http://downtothewireradio.kjzz.org/ Down to the Wire] election special.  Recently, John received mention in the July 28, 2008 issue of [http://www.current.org/web/web0813api.shtml Current], a trade magazine for public broadcasters, for his work in creating the [http://code.google.com/p/npr-simile-timeline/ NPR Timeline], a working, scaleable, mashup combining [http://code.google.com/p/simile-widgets/ MIT's Timeline widget] with [http://www.npr.org/api/ NPR's API].  John currently serves as an advisor on NPR's Digital Advisory Working Group and he helped facilitate the Social Media Track at the 2008 Public Media Conference.  John received an MFA in creative writing from the University of Arizona. He lives in Tempe with his wife, reporter [http://www.renegutel.com/ Rene Gutel], and their two dachshunds, Rigatoni and Alfredo.

=Stokely Baksh=

http://www.stokelybaksh.com/

Stokely Baksh is a multimedia journalist, based in Washington, D.C., who has spent many mornings working on the Hill. 

A recent graduate of Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism, Baksh completed an investigative project called "The Business of Detention" that explores the profitable business of immigration detention with her colleague Renee Feltz. The investigation won the Melvin Mencher Award for Superior Reporting and the James A. Wechsler Award for National Reporting. It was also the first investigative-new media project for the university.

Prior to graduate school, Baksh worked for the non-profit journalism organization Center for Public Integrity, newswire United Press International under the technology and business desks, and Indymedia. At age 20, she went to Guyana, not to be mistaken for Ghana, where she researched death squads.

Most recently, she was a News21 Fellow, partnering with Feltz to report on Arizona's proof of citizenship requirements for registering to voting for the Carnegie-Knight Foundation.

Also a graduate of American University, Baksh returns there Fall 2008 as a post-graduate fellow at American University's Investigative Reporting Workshop, where she will continue looking at immigration detention

=Amy Jeffries=

http://www.globalnewsenterprises.com/teamEdit04.php

Amy Jeffries will be the !GlobalPost Senior Producer for Multimedia. Jeffries will oversee the conception, design and implementation of multimedia content. She was a reporter and producer for WNPR, Connecticut Public Radio, and she has been a contributor to the Associated Press, National Public Radio and FRONTLINE/World online. Her work has taken her to China, Zimbabwe and South Africa. She was a fellow in the News21 Project, an incubator for innovative enterprise reporting which is part of the Carnegie-Knight Initiative on the Future of Journalism. Jeffries has a master's degree in journalism from the University of California, Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism, where she specialized in international and online media.

=Kara Andrade=

http://www.karaandrade.com/

Kara Andrade is a five-year veteran of multimedia journalism who uses social media to bridge the world of newspapers, technologists and entrepreneurs to present relevant, accessible and edgy stories. She builds online and real-world communities and has reported and organized events in virtual worlds such as Second Life.

Kara is the Interactive Editor for Youth Radio's award-winning converged production company. She maintains and drives YR's online content strategy, distribution and partnerships.

Kara graduated from UC Berkeley's School of Journalism with an M.A. in Journalism. She received her B.A. in Literature from New College of Florida and has six years of experience in nonprofit development, public health and community organizing. She's worked as a staff writer, photojournalist and bilingual multimedia journalist for the the Contra Costa Times, the Oakland Tribune, Agence France-Presse, and the Associated Press.