#labels Featured
_Written by Jeremy Rue, Scot Hacker and Milan Andric_

=Describe your project=

In the process of getting content on the Web, one major hurdle continues to be a reoccurring theme among virtually every newsroom we talk to. The Content Management System has become the new copy desk, and everyone is dying to get their hands on something that is easy, capable and practical.

Rather than relying on expensive, proprietary content management tools that are not fine-tuned for the art of digital storytelling, journalists should be building their own software tools, which can then be released to the public and shared between organizations. But journalists are writers, not programmers. They emerge from liberal arts backgrounds, and often consider the art of storytelling to be the ultimate skill set. But a digital revolution has moved the readership online, and publishing models for telling those stories have changed drastically. 

Generally speaking, journalists are no more adept at online publishing than the average MySpace user. That's why we want to create a software solution for news organizations to easily publish new media online -- to give journalists a venue for telling their stories that is simple to learn and use. We plan to create an open-source and free Web application for any news organization to utilize. We plan to: 

 # Create a simple, packaged, auto-install content management system for news organizations that is built specifically for journalists to tell stories online. 
 # Release a public source code to engage the community to participate in improving the system to evolve with the changing needs of the industry. 
 # Develop a software community whose sole purpose would be to maintain the software and update it regularly to keep it secure and relevant. 

We can create this software product in one-year's time. By the end of eight months, we plan to have a fully functioning beta version, and in one year a final product.  

=How will your project improve the way news and information are delivered to geographic communities?=

Walk into most newsrooms across this country, you’ll find and that the reporters, editors and photographers probably have little understanding of how their stories or photos end up on the Web.  The publication web sites are a separate entity, sometimes even outsourced to a tech company that normally often specializes in e-commerce. They do this for good reasons; the complexity of the CMS is so great it takes specialized staff to even keep it running. 

This is especially apparent in small newsrooms serving local communities, who will be our target audience. As newspaper subscriptions decline, so do the organizations that serve local communities. Our goal is to help all of the thousands of mid-market news organizations that simply won't survive in the coming years as their print costs rise and ad revenues decline. 

=How is your idea innovative? (new or different from what already exists)=

Various "simple" publishing platforms already exist. WordPress is easy to use, but is built for confined data structures such as blogs and simple publications. It is astounding how many people attempt to use WordPress as a content management system. Why? WordPress is popular because it's simple, but it was never designed for the more complex site structures, and the result is a bail-wired hacked CMS to do something it was never intended to do.

We want to create the next WordPress or Drupal – but built on a framework that is modular and innovative. How is ours different? Three ways: It's simple, it's flexible and it's made for journalists, with the input of journalists.

Our system will utilize an emerging technology that already exists: the Python-based Django framework. Rather than yet another pre-fab CMS with all of its assumptions and limitations, Django provides the building blocks to construct a well designed CMS custom-tailored to the needs of new media journalists. 

Unlike almost every other system, ours will be built with multimedia in mind. We will implement the latest technologies for running Flash video, audio and photo slideshows. It will be pre-packaged with a basic player, but allow for modification and branding. We will also include support for streaming services (severd by 3rd parties) to live broadcast events.

WordPress and Drupal have vibrant communities and support centers, despite being free solutions.  We plan to create a similar community around our Django package. We will first develop a Web site to facilitate that community and gather developers for managing the project. Builds will be distributed via this site, and input and support will be included through the use of forums and wikis.

=What experience do you or your organization have to successfully develop this project?=


This team will have the perfect combination of skills. Whenever there is a plan to do something incredible with digital tools, there is usually a hole in the team's skill set. Either there is a lack of technical expertise, or it's a team that is too technical and doesn't speak to the needs of the everyday user. We've assembled a team that is diverse in its backgrounds and contains the  right combination of skills to make this project a reality.

The team leader, Milan Andric, is technically proficient in just this way. He is a programmer who spent the last three years working for the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism.  He also developed a CMS from the ground up. Built purely in PHP, it was a tremendous learning experience as he realized the evolving needs of journalists required consistent re-thinking of the what the system is and does. Along the way he discovered a new mechanism for building CMSes -- Django. He later built a CMS in Django to serve the site for the Knight Digtial Media Center at UC Berkeley, which sits on top of a complex and multi-tiered data structure. The site has gone through several revisions, all possible thanks to of the flexibility of the framework.

=Development Roles=
These are open to change of who is sitting in the role, but I think it's important to define the roles that are necessary for this project.

Backend Web Development
  * Milan Andric,  UC Berkeley/KDMC
  * Scot Hacker, UC Berkeley/KDMC
  * John Tynan, KJZZ.org / KBAQ.org (NPR Affiliates)

Frontend Interface Development / User Experience
  * Jeremy Rue, multimedia training instructor UC Berkeley Knight Digital Media Center
  * Brad Flora, editor, Windy Citizen

Multimedia Journalists (wisdom, beneficiaries ...)
  * Richard Koci Hernandez, formerly San Jose Mercury News, now Ford Fellow for UC Berkeley
  * Stokely Baksh, Columbia
  * Kara Andrade, Youth Radio in Oakland
  * Amy Jeffries, Webmaster for Global News Enterprises

=What unmet need does your proposal answer?=

Online newsrooms struggle with publishing systems that are rigid and difficult to change. Systems are built for a pre-defined story format (usually text-based), and often are owned and controlled by parent corporations, leaving the individual newsroom with no online vehicle in which to experiment. Examples of story formats that newsrooms struggle to publish include Flash-based presentations, map mashups, custom navigation and templates for special feature presentations, data-backed presentations (like chicagocrime or everyblock), etc. In addition, IT staff and management are often unwilling or unable to make accommodations for journalists who want to work “outside the box” (where “box” = CMS). There are really two obstacles to overcome: 1) Rigid and unchangeable data models on the back-end, and 2) Rigid and unchangeable presentation templates. In contrast, Django Newsroom aims to provide a platform that can easily accommodate any data type, where organizational site templates can be modified, augmented, or replaced; and where custom content types and story formats are encouraged, rather than discouraged.

=What tasks/benchmarks need to be accomplished to develop your project and by when will you complete them?=

The project is currently in early planning phases, this involves requirements and outreach.  During the “requirements phase” of development, our first objective is to research and discuss what the needs of journalists are, and to formulate the requirements for the components of the software. Once that phase is complete, we’ll create a roadmap defining our path to final goals.  The requirements phase requires discussion and input from all sides: developers, interaction and interface designers,  and particularly journalists who are technically inclined, to craft, define and prioritize features.  The requirements phase is an iterative process.

We view software construction as a multi-disciplinary activity, so we need to encourage professionals from all areas of the ecosystem to participate. CMSs built by engineers in a vacuum is the problem; we intend not to repeat that mistake.  It is important to find people who see value in the project and encourage them to contribute -- to participate in the open source process.  

In keeping with the “iterative process” approach, software “deliverables”  should be released as soon as possible early in the development cycle. When a “proof of concept” is made available, then we expect interest to grow, and for more participants to come on board.  

Our first deliverables will be a slideshow and video application.  These applications are in the greatest demand and have very specific needs in multimedia journalism.  The current solutions available are quite lacking.  Providing these solutions will give the project the initial exposure necessary to  get more people involved, using the software, and providing feedback.  We plan to have a release for these applications ready in a month.

Once our proof-of-concept software is functional, it is important to set up a demo site.  The demo site, which will be running the current/development version of our software. This provides a place for anyone to test new features without installing anything.  

We have already launched an open discussion group for the project, and participants are actively chewing on ideas and approaches for Django Newsroom.  

=What will you have changed by the end of your project?=

As the iterative development process progresses, we expect to go through many iterations of sample data models, back-end interfaces, and workflow approaches. Because of the anticipated difficulty of getting this right, we don’t expect it to be perfect the first time. 

=How will you measure progress and ultimately success?=

Progress will be measured in milestones and release cycles.  We plan to have a regular release cycle, in which, every 3 months a new version of the software will be made available.  Each release will address a defined set of objectives, and the team will work towards those goals for each release.  Success will be measured by answering these questions (in rough chronological order):

 * How many people join our discussion group?
 * How many messages are sent in our discussion group?
 * How many views does the demo site get?
 * How many views does the project web site get?
 * Are any major publications linking to or talking about us?
 * How many people actually downloaded the software?
 * How many developers have commit access to the software repository?
 * How many organizations are involved in development of our project?
 * How many organizations are using our software in a production environment?
 * What kind of feedback are we getting from deploying organizations? 
 * Are organizations contributing patches and code back to the project?


=Do you see any risk in the development of your project?=

The only risk is that another project with similar goals gains more interest than we do and provides similar goals.  This might divide the resources/people available to contribute to our project. Because it’s relatively difficult for an organization to “escape” from a content management system, once a publication decides on a competing product, it could be difficult to win them back (even if our platform is markedly superior). Therefore it is in the best interest of Django Newsroom to get a working platform “into the wild” sooner rather than later.

=What is your marketing plan? How will people learn about what you are doing?=

Our marketing plan is to do outreach at all the major user group social networks and development hubs to find interested parties to join our open source project.  The list includes:

	* Linkedin’s Python, Django and Journalism groups
	* FOSS Professionals on LinkedIn
	* Facebook’s Python, Django and Journalism groups
	* Django user and developers groups, including Pinax
	* Pinax user and developer groups
	* Chicago, NY, Berkeley and Phoenix local Python and Django user groups
	* Other online Journalism and Digital Media Groups
	* Contact Python developers already working in the Journalism field
	* Encourage community members to blog about the project

Once the first milestone is reached, a press release will be made to the various journalism news outlets and blogs, including:

	* Knight Digital Media Center
	* MediaShift/PBS.org
	* NPR.org
	* Romensko (Poynter)
	* Jay Rosen’s PressThink
